{
  "Motivation": "Activity trackers are very popular nowadays. These apps leverage various motivators, such as social feeds, points for activity, and reminders. However, most of these apps do not leverage collaborative motivators. I wanted to investigate whether or not users would feel more motivated to exercise if it wasn't just about working towards a personal goal, but towards a shared goal with a team of friends/strangers. The goal of my RPG themed activity tracker, 'Stat Buff' was to gamify progress as ingame character development (leading to greater attack damage), and workouts as attacks towards your teams enemy. This rewards users for making progress in their performance, as well as for making small daily efforts. The teams enemy resets in a week if it has not been defeated, which creates an urgency to exercise in order to to reach the next enemy.",
 "Background": "The most similar research I could find on collaborative activity trackers was a paper on an app named 'Pass the Ball' \cite{}. This app was very simple: a team has one ball, and the person with that ball could score points for the team by exercising, and pass it to others. This very simple idea lead to many feeling responsibility to exercise when they had the ball. It also lead to lots of issues: users hogging the ball, stealing the ball for a point penalty, etc. There were also issues for users with irregular schedules. This study made me understand the importance of accountability and structure, but also the possible friction that this can cause if not implemented well. I also looked into a case study on "Spy Feet" \cite{} which was a pedometer that let the user progress in a story through walking. The researchers were I did some research into the effectiveness of activity trackers. Although this was singleplayer and story based, it was reassuring to see that gamified abstractions motivated users to exercise more. I also did some research into the state of activity trackers as a whole. "Behavior Change Techniques in Top-Ranked Mobile Apps for Physical Activity" \cite{} talked about the lack of behavioural change techniques employed in top apps, aswell as the two primary categories: educational and motivational. This made me consider which route I should take (I leaned more towards motivational, with educational aspects). "Apps of Steel: Are Exercise Apps Providing Consumers With Realistic Expectations?" came to the same conclusion as the earlier paper: apps don't use enough behavioural change techniques. I kept this in mind, but still kept my focus on collaborative aspects. I also read "Personalizing Mobile Fitness Apps Using Reinforcement Learning", as I was interested in if it was possible to increase the effectiveness of the collaborative techniques through machine learning. This was out of scope to implement due to a lack of experience and time. I read "A Tale of Two Perspectives: A Conceptual Framework of User Expectations and Experiences of Instructional Fitness Apps" in order to understand what users prioritize in activity trackers. The app found that content was most important for 47.2%, technical implementation and utilities 39.7%, and psychological features were the most important for 13.2% of users. Because of this, I decided that I should pay attention to content and technical details even if they aren't what is being studied, as this will make the app more attractive and usable for participants. Finally, I did some research into behaviour change by looking at "Integrated Theory of Health Behavior Change". I didn't have the time to implement most techniques, but it gave me a good understanding of how social support can be leveraged to drive behavioural change.
